SDK-2024. Deleted old Evaluator and Upgrader doc. Added Manifest inte… (#1675)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/dev/guidelines/keeping-a-project-upgradable/supported-extension-scenarios/modules-configuration.md

---
title: Modules configuration
description: Modules configuration extension scenario
last_updated: Mar 13, 2023
template: concept-topic-template
related:
- title: Plugins registration
  link: docs/scos/dev/guidelines/keeping-a-project-upgradable/supported-extension-scenarios/event-subscribers-registration.html
- title: Event subscribers registration
  link: docs/scos/dev/guidelines/keeping-a-project-upgradable/supported-extension-scenarios/event-subscribers-registration.html
- title: Modules configuration
  link: docs/scos/dev/guidelines/keeping-a-project-upgradable/supported-extension-scenarios/modules-configuration.html
---

## Introduction

> Manifests support changes in module configuration files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifests support changes in a module's configuration files.
```

> Manifests support all scalar types (bool, int, float, string), compound type array and special type null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifests support all scalar types (bool, int, float, string), the compound type array and the special type, null.
```

> Manifests support all scalar types (bool, int, float, string), the compound type array and the special type, null.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifests support all scalar types (bool, int, float, string), the compound type array, and the special type, null.
```

> Manifests do not support compound types object, callable, iterable and special type resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifests do not support compound type objects, or callable, iterable and special type resources.
```

> Manifest only add the values to configuration files. Manifests DO NOT REMOVE the values from project configuration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifest only add values to configuration files. Manifests **will not remove** values from project configuration. 
```

## 1.1. Basic scalar values as return

> Manifests fully support 4 scalar types:

Reviewer 2: instead of "4 scalar types" a more generic phrase can be used, e.g. the next "all PHP data types" to make it similar to the text above.

> * bool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* boolean
```

* int
* float (floating-point number)
* string

> Manifests also support usage of the constants and have built in basic support for constant concatenation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifests also support the usage of constants and have built in basic support for constant concatenation.
```

```php
use Pyz\Zed\Synchronization\SynchronizationConfig;
use Spryker\Zed\ConfigurableBundleStorage\ConfigurableBundleStorageConfig as SprykerConfigurableBundleStorageConfig;

class ConfigurableBundleStorageConfig extends SprykerConfigurableBundleStorageConfig
{
    ...
    public function getConfigurableBundleTemplateSynchronizationPoolName(): string
    {
        return SynchronizationConfig::DEFAULT_SYNCHRONIZATION_POOL_NAME;
    }
}
```

Code example 1.1.3: Method returns string with constant concatenation
```php
use Spryker\Zed\Development\DevelopmentConfig as SprykerDevelopmentConfig;

class DevelopmentConfig extends SprykerDevelopmentConfig
{
    ...
    public function getCodingStandard(): string
    {
        return APPLICATION_ROOT_DIR . DIRECTORY_SEPARATOR . 'phpcs.xml';
    }
}
```

Code example 1.1.4: Method returns boolean
```php
use SprykerShop\Yves\ProductReplacementForWidget\ProductReplacementForWidgetConfig as SprykerShopProductReplacementForWidgetConfig;

class ProductReplacementForWidgetConfig extends SprykerShopProductReplacementForWidgetConfig
{
    ...
    public function isProductReplacementFilterActive(): bool
    {
        return true;
    }
}
```

> Code example 3.1.5: Method returns int

Reviewer 2: a typo - 1.1.5

Author: Thanks - fixed

```php
use Spryker\Zed\Customer\CustomerConfig as SprykerCustomerConfig;

class CustomerConfig extends SprykerCustomerConfig
{
    ...
    public function getCustomerPasswordSequenceLimit(): ?int
    {
        return 3;
    }
}
```

## 1.2. Array as return

> ### 1.2.1. Indexed array as return

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.2.1. Indexed array as the return
```

> Code example 3.2.1: Method returns indexed array

Reviewer 2: please recheck the code example blocks numbering.

Author: Thanks fixed

```php
use Spryker\Client\Storage\StorageConfig as SprykerStorageClientConfig;

class StorageConfig extends SprykerStorageClientConfig
{
    ...
    public function getAllowedGetParametersList(): array
    {
        return [
            'page',
            'sort',
            'ipp',
            'q',
        ];
    }
}
```

### 1.2.2. Associative array as return

Code example 1.2.2: Method returns associative array
```php
use Spryker\Glue\NavigationsRestApi\NavigationsRestApiConfig as SprykerNavigationsRestApiConfigi;

class NavigationsRestApiConfig extends SprykerNavigationsRestApiConfigi
{
    ...
    public function getNavigationTypeToUrlResourceIdFieldMapping(): array
    {
        return [
            'category' => 'fkResourceCategorynode',
            'cms_page' => 'fkResourcePage',
        ];
    }
}
```

> ### 1.2.3. Multidimensional array as return

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.2.3. Multidimensional array as the return
```

Multidimensional associative arrays are supported up to 2 levels, but for its usage the wrapped functions MUST be used: 
```php
use Spryker\Client\RabbitMq\RabbitMqConfig as SprykerRabbitMqConfig;
use Spryker\Shared\Event\EventConfig;
use Spryker\Shared\Event\EventConstants;
use Spryker\Shared\Log\LogConstants;

class RabbitMqConfig extends SprykerRabbitMqConfig
{
    ...
    protected function getQueueConfiguration(): array
    {
        return [
            EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE => $this->getEventQueuePlugins(),
            $this->get(LogConstants::LOG_QUEUE_NAME),
        ];
    }
    
    protected function getEventQueuePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            EventConfig::EVENT_ROUTING_KEY_RETRY => EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE_RETRY,
            EventConfig::EVENT_ROUTING_KEY_ERROR => EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE_ERROR,
        ];
    }
}
```

### 1.2.4. Merging array

Manifests fully support the possibility of merging the results of calling multiple methods.

> Inside of array merge function call you can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside of an array merge function call you can use:
```

* wrap methods calls
* parent method call
* indexed arrays
* associative arrays
* multidimensional arrays
* variables

Code example 1.2.4: Method returns associative array (with constants, parent method call and array merging)
```php
use Generated\Shared\Transfer\QuoteTransfer;
use Spryker\Client\MultiCart\MultiCartConfig as SprykerMultiCartConfig;

class MultiCartConfig extends SprykerMultiCartConfig
{
    ...
    public function getQuoteFieldsAllowedForQuoteDuplicate(): array
    {
        return array_merge(parent::getQuoteFieldsAllowedForQuoteDuplicate(), [
            QuoteTransfer::BUNDLE_ITEMS,
            QuoteTransfer::CART_NOTE,
        ]);
    }
}
```

> Multidimensional arrays (up to 2 levels) are also supported here, but for its usage the wrapped function MUST be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multidimensional arrays (up to 2 levels) are also supported here, but to use it the wrapped function **must** be used.
```

> Multidimensional arrays (up to 2 levels) are also supported here, but to use it the wrapped function **must** be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multidimensional arrays (up to 2 levels) are also supported here, but to use them the wrapped function **must** be used.
```

Code example 1.2.5: Method returns multidimensional array (with constants, wrap methods call and array merging)
```php
use Spryker\Client\RabbitMq\RabbitMqConfig as SprykerRabbitMqConfig;
use Spryker\Shared\Event\EventConfig;
use Spryker\Shared\Event\EventConstants;
use Spryker\Shared\Log\LogConstants;

class RabbitMqConfig extends SprykerRabbitMqConfig
{
    ...
    protected function getQueueConfiguration(): array
    {
        return array_merge(
            [
                EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE => $this->getEventQueuePlugins(),
                $this->get(LogConstants::LOG_QUEUE_NAME),
            ],
            $this->getPublishQueueConfiguration(),
            $this->getSynchronizationQueueConfiguration(),
        );
    }
    
    protected function getEventQueuePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            EventConfig::EVENT_ROUTING_KEY_RETRY => EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE_RETRY,
            EventConfig::EVENT_ROUTING_KEY_ERROR => EventConstants::EVENT_QUEUE_ERROR,
        ];
    }
}
```

## 1.3. Null as the return

> Code example 1.1.4: Method returns null

Author: yes 1.3.1
thanks
